docs: Refactor the NVIDIA GPU page (#131)
canonical/data-science-stack: docs/reference/enable-gpu.rst

> .. _nvidia-gpu:

Reviewer: what is this line for? Coming from the starter-pack? rst (I am used to Markdown)?

Author: It's so that it can then be referenced from other documents (via `:ref:nvidia-gpu`, for example in the `Next Steps` section of another doc)

> Enable NVIDIA GPUs

Reviewer: This whole page is not a Reference - it is a how-to guide. We need to move it there. In general, Reference should be kept for factual information. When related to software, we usually mean describing APIs, functions, options for commands, this kind of stuff.

Author: ACK! Moving it under how-to guides

==================

> The following section describes how to configure the DSS to utilize the host's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide describes how to configure DSS to utilize the host's
```

Reviewer: I would drop the "the" from "the DSS", when using it as an acronym. This is probably something to check with product/marketing. Can't find the way to tag Andreea here. Maybe she doesn't have Github??

Reviewer: I am not happy with "host". Does the user know he/she is the host? I would go for:
"This guide describes how to configure DSS to utilize your NVIDIA GPUs."

Author: No hard preference on "the", ACK on replacing the word host

Author: On a "technical" note. @afgambin the suggestion above will look weird since it puts a period at the end of the sentence, while the next line will continue the sentence. 

If you can make multi-line suggestions then let's do this so that I don't have to make further changes after merging the changes. If not let me know and I'll convert to one liners instead

Author: pushed a commit for this d2a2a8a

> NVIDIA GPU. This is achieved by configuring the underlying MicroK8s, that the

Reviewer: As a rule of thumb, better to have whole sentences in the same line (when possible) - that way is easier for reviews/updates.

Author: @afgambin I think you can select multiple lines for which to suggest changes (click on first line and then Shift and click on the next line)

Would this help?

> NVIDIA GPU. This is achieved by configuring the underlying MicroK8s, that the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NVIDIA GPU. You can do so by configuring the underlying MicroK8s, on which DSS rely on for running the containerised workloads.
```

Author: Ah, just saw the second part of the suggestion

pushed a commit 5a8fba4

(the suggestions are now outdated and I can't apply some of them...)

> DSS is relying for running the containerised workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Prerequisites
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> * Have run the :ref:`tutorial` tutorial

Reviewer: Is this an actual prerequisite? or more like a recommendation? If the latter, then we should add it as a sentence after the intro paragraph, saying something like: "It is recommended you are familiar with DSS before enabling GPUs. See the :ref:`tutorial` for getting started."

Author: It's needed, so that users have installed microK8s and have the `dss` CLI

Author: ACK! Updated it in 8bbc3a0

Install the NVIDIA Operator
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> To ensure the DSS can utilise the NVIDIA GPUs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure DSS can utilise NVIDIA GPUs:
```
Same suggestion as above regarding "the" for DSS.

> 1. The host will need to have the NVIDIA drivers installed

Reviewer: These two points seems to be the actual prerequisites to enable GPUs. Then, we can move them to the previous section.

Author: Good point! I'll move them at the top

> 1. The host will need to have the NVIDIA drivers installed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. You need to have the NVIDIA drivers installed.
```
Preferably, we speak in present tense.

> 2. MicroK8s will need to be setup to utilise those drivers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. MicroK8s must be set up to utilise NVIDIA drivers.
```
Adding links to these two points for further instructions on how to do theses things are definitely useful.

Author: Yes! I'll try to add a link to microK8s docs for this

> MicroK8s is leveraging the `NVIDIA Operator`_ to for setting up and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MicroK8s is leveraging the `NVIDIA Operator`_  for setting up and
```

Author: Pushed a commit 895e4f5

> configuring the NVIDIA runtime. The NVIDIA Operator will also install

Author: Pushed a commit 4e89889

> the NVIDIA drivers, if they are not present already on the host machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the NVIDIA drivers, if they are not present already on your machine.
```

Author: pushed a commit b4b27ad

To enable the NVIDIA runtimes on MicroK8s, run the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo microk8s enable gpu

.. note::

>    The NVIDIA Operator will detect if the NVIDIA drivers are not present at all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The NVIDIA Operator detects if the NVIDIA drivers are not present at all
```

Author: pushed a commit 5a66bc5

>    and will install them in this case. But the NVIDIA Operator can also detect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   and will install them in this case. 
```

Author: pushed a commit 5a66bc5

>    if you have drivers already installed. In this case the NVIDIA Operator will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Otherwise, it uses the installed drivers.
```

Author: pushed a commit 5a66bc5

>    use the host's drivers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Author: pushed a commit 5a66bc5

Verify the NVIDIA Operator is up
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Before spinning up workloads that you need to ensure the GPU Operator has

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before spinning up workloads, you need to ensure the GPU Operator has
```

Author: Pushed a commit b00a175

> been successfully initialized. This can take around 5 minutes.

Reviewer: Here I would add an intro sentence saying something like: "This process involves ensuring DaemonSet is ready, and the Validator Pod has succeeded".

Author: pushed a commit c661552

> Ensure DaemonSet is Ready

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure DaemonSet is ready
```

"""""""""""""""""""""""""

> First we need to ensure that the DaemonSet for the Operator Validator is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, ensure the DaemonSet for the Operator Validator is created:
```

Author: Pushed a commit f0fd4c3

> created:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Author: Pushed a commit https://github.com/canonical/data-science-stack/commit/f0fd4c37b66e24fe5c8e07519ccb2c24816910cd

.. code-block:: bash

>   while ! sudo microk8s.kubectl get ds -n gpu-operator-resources nvidia-operator-validator

Reviewer: Can we break this line into several? so the user can read it entirely without having to swipe

Author: Pushed a commit 6d795e7

  do
    sleep 5
  done

.. note::

>    It will take some seconds for the DaemonSet to get created. The above command will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   It takes some seconds for the DaemonSet to get created. The above command
```

Author: Pushed a commit 70a1642

>    return a message like the following at the beginning:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   returns a message like the following at the beginning of the process:
```

Author: Pushed a commit 70a1642

   ``Error from server (NotFound): daemonsets.apps "nvidia-operator-validator" not found``

> The expected output should be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once completed, you should expect this output:
```

Author: Pushed a commit 70a1642

.. code-block:: text

   Error from server (NotFound): daemonsets.apps "nvidia-operator-validator" not found
   ...
   Error from server (NotFound): daemonsets.apps "nvidia-operator-validator" not found
   NAME                        DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   NODE SELECTOR                                   AGE
   nvidia-operator-validator   1         1         0       1            0           nvidia.com/gpu.deploy.operator-validator=true   17s

Ensure the Validator succeeded
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

> Next we'll need to wait for the Validator Pod to succeed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, you have to wait until the Validator Pod to succeed:
```
If this and previous steps are a sequence, I would create the titles with numbering, i.e., 
1. Ensure ...
2. Wait for the...
Not sure yet if headings usually include numbered lists (need to check other product docs), but I would go ahead with this solution.

Author: Hmm but it's already as a list. Keep in mind that the `Ensure the DaemonSet succeeded` is only one wait step. That's why the `Ensure the DaemonSet succeeded` is one step.

And similarly `Ensure the Validator succeeded` is another step, and inside it's just a waiting command

![image](https://github.com/canonical/data-science-stack/assets/11134742/1d804ed3-2664-4830-bec0-e82d25968190)

Reviewer: What I meant here is to something similar to these [numbered lists](https://canonical-data-science-stack.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/how-to/jupyter-notebook/create-notebook/#creating-a-notebook). In the sense that, to verify the NVIDIA Operator is up, you have to do:
1. Ensure DaemonSet is ready
2. Ensure the Validator succeeded

Author: I'm not really a fan of the identation in this page, and would prefer to use headers in case there needs to be a lot of text and/or code blocks in a numbered list.

Would you be OK with adding numbers at the beginning of the headers, like `1. Ensure DaemonSet is ready` and `2. Ensure the Validator succeeded` in the headings?

Or you'd also hugely prefer to have the content indented for the numbered list?

Reviewer: Alright, let's keep it as is. I am not happy with numbering headings, I had a quick look and we don't do it in other Canonical docs.

.. code-block:: bash

  echo "Waiting for the NVIDIA Operator validations to complete..."

>   while ! sudo microk8s.kubectl logs -n gpu-operator-resources -l app=nvidia-operator-validator -c nvidia-operator-validator | grep "all validations are successful"

Reviewer: Can we break this line into several? so the user can read it entirely without having to swipe

Author: Pushed a commit 6d795e7

  do
    sleep 5
  done

.. note::

>    It will take some seconds for the Pod to get initialized . The above command will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   It takes some seconds for the Pod to get initialised. The above command
```

>    return a message like the following at the beginning:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  returns a message like the following at the beginning of the process:
```

Author: Pushed a commit 70a1642

   ``Error from server (BadRequest): container "nvidia-operator-validator" in pod "nvidia-operator-validator-4rq5n" is waiting to start: PodInitializing``

> The expected output should be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once completed, you should expect this output:
```

Author: Pushed a commit 70a1642

.. code-block:: text

   Error from server (BadRequest): container "nvidia-operator-validator" in pod "nvidia-operator-validator-4rq5n" is waiting to start: PodInitializing
   ...
   Error from server (BadRequest): container "nvidia-operator-validator" in pod "nvidia-operator-validator-4rq5n" is waiting to start: PodInitializing
   all validations are successful

> Verify the DSS detects the GPU

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify DSS detects the GPU
```

Author: Pushed a commit 70a1642

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> 

Reviewer: Add an intro sentence, like: "You can verify the DSS status with:"

.. code-block:: bash

  dss status

> Expected output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 You should expect this output:
```

.. code-block:: bash

  [INFO] MLflow deployment: Ready
  [INFO] MLflow URL: http://10.152.183.74:5000
  [INFO] GPU acceleration: Enabled (NVIDIA-GeForce-RTX-3070-Ti)

.. note::

>   The GPU model `NVIDIA-GeForce-RTX-3070-Ti` will be different depending on your device.

Author: Pushed a commit 3512da2

> Launch GPU-enabled Notebook

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Launch GPU-enabled notebook
```
Do we consider notebook an specific product or a general term? Not sure here. The latter would be lower case.

Author: Pushed a commit 6d795e7

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> At this point the DSS is fully configured to utilise the host's GPU. The next step will

Reviewer: It's important to understand that a how-to guide is not step by step guide. Each section are independent, so sentences like "at this point", "next" should be generally avoided.

Author: @afgambin I would disagree here. The step by step should matter, otherwise I would first tell users to create a Notebook with a GPU and then to install the drivers.

Maybe in what you describe would make sense in a case where I'd have one how-to for multiple orthogonal items (like starting, stoping, deleting notebooks). But in this case, to end up spinning up a Notebook and use a GPU the order matters

Reviewer: hmm.. I see your point, but the how-to guides should generally be structured as orthogonal and independent items as much as possible, e.g., the user already installed the NVIDIA Operator, and now he wants to launch a GPU-enabled notebook -> so he goes "at work" and looks for that section (Launch a GPU-enable notebook).

And this is important to understand, when he lands at the section he is looking for, he already knows that to launch the notebook, the NVIDIA Operator must be already installed. Otherwise, we are writing a tutorial.

We can iterate on this, but the current text feels yet like writing a tutorial to me. It might be this is what we actually need - I remember you mention having a second tutorial involving GPUs.

Author: Ah, I see what you mean. In this case if we'd want to keep a how-to then does it mean we need to:
1. Have a `Enable NVIDIA GPUs in DSS` how-to, that handles installing and verifying the NVIDIA Operator
2. Have a `Launch a GPU-enabled notebook` how-to, that are prerequisite has the previous guide, and shows how to run the notebook

??

Don't have a hard preference on having it as a tutorial or how to, more on what's the most time effective approach that we can justify with the Diataxis framework

Reviewer: Exactly. And they can still be in the same how-to page (because they are related). The key part is that they are content independent sections as much as possible and we use proper linking and text. For instance, in this case, what I would do is the following (for the `Launch a GPU-enabled notebook` section):

1. Modify the text to comply with how-to style guide -> "You can deploy a notebook containing CUDA runtimes and ML frameworks." -> straight to the action. No prior context.
2. Add a note below that intro sentence saying that: "To launch a GPU-enabled notebook, you must first install and verify the NVIDIA Operator", adding links to these sections in "install" and "verify" words.

In this way, there is no longer sequential and contextual text, therefore it is not a tutorial. I think with that I would be happy with the current state.

Author: ACK, thanks for the explanation! Pushed a commit for this 083f79a

> At this point the DSS is fully configured to utilise the host's GPU. The next step will

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Author: Pushed a commit 3512da2

> be to deploy a notebook that also contains CUDA runtimes, alongside with ML frameworks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once DSS is fully configured to utilise your GPU, you can deploy a notebook containing CUDA runtimes and ML frameworks.
```

Author: Pushed a commit 3512da2

> that can utilise the GPU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Author: Pushed a commit 3512da2

> You can find a list of proposed images that include CUDA with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To find a list of available CUDA images, run:
```

Author: Pushed a commit 3512da2

.. code-block:: bash

   dss create --help | grep cuda

> You should see an output similar to this one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should see an output similar to this:
```

Author: Pushed a commit 3512da2

.. code-block:: bash

>         - pytorch-cuda = kubeflownotebookswg/jupyter-pytorch-cuda-full:v1.8.0

Reviewer: Question: are these hyphens correct? i.e., "- pytorch..."

Author: Yes, it's the actual output after running the above command and piping it to `grep`

        - tensorflow-cuda = kubeflownotebookswg/jupyter-tensorflow-cuda-full:v1.8.0

> Pick one of the two images and create a notebooks with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select one of the them and create a notebook with:
```

.. code-block:: bash

   dss create my-notebook --image=tensorflow-cuda

> To confirm the GPU is detected and usable you can run the following python code snippet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Confirm the GPU is detected and usable by running:
```

Author: Pushed a commit 3512da2
